                    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                       Version 2, June 1991

 Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
   51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA

 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

                            Preamble

  The GNU General Public License is a free, copyleft license for
software and other kinds of works.

  The licenses for most software and other practical works are designed
to take away your freedom to share and change the works.  By contrast,
the GNU General Public License is intended to guarantee your freedom to
share and change all versions of a program--to make sure it remains free
software for all its users.  We, the Free Software Foundation, use the
GNU General Public License for most of our software; it applies also to
any other work released this way by its authors.  You can apply it to
your programs, too.

  When a program is released under this license, you are given the
possibility to distribute copies of the program, to change it, and to
make sure that all those who receive copies or works based on it also
get these rights.  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions
that forbid anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender
the rights.  These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities
for you if you distribute copies of the program or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must pass on to the recipients the same
freedoms that you received.  You must make sure that they, too, receive
or can get the source code.  And you must show them these terms so they
know their rights.

  We have designed this License in order that it will be a practical
instrument for conveying freedom, and not as a mere document of
political theory.  Our design has been guided by the fact that most
programmers would rather share their work with others, so they want to
make it useful and compatible with other programs.  In other words, we
want to make sure that the program is free for all its users, and that
any improvements or modifications that they make are also free.

  To protect your rights, we need to prevent others from denying you
these rights or asking you to surrender the rights.  Therefore, you have
certain responsibilities if you distribute copies of the software, or if
you modify it: responsibilities to respect the freedom of others.

  For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must pass on to the recipients the same
freedoms that you received.  You must make sure that they, too, receive
or can get the source code.  And you must show them these terms so they
know their rights.

  These requirements apply to you, as the distributor, if you modify
the program or any portion of it, or if you distribute copies of the
program or any portion of it in source or object form.

  Thus, the GNU General Public License ensures that the program is free
software for all its users.  This License does not permit incorporating
the program into proprietary programs; if you do that, you must make the
source code available under the same terms.

  Finally, every program is threatened constantly by software patents.
States that give patents on software are not allowed to use this License
to restrict users’ freedom to share and change the software.  The
intent of this License is to make sure that the software is free for all
its users, regardless of patents or other legal restrictions.

                            TERMS AND CONDITIONS

 0. Definitions.
  “This License” refers to version 2 of the GNU General Public License.
  “The Program” refers to any copyrightable work licensed under this License.
  “You” refers to a natural person or a legal entity, and “your” means
  your, its, or their, as appropriate.

 1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program’s source
  code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously
  and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice
  and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to
  this License and to the absence of any warranty; and give any other
  recipients of the Program a copy of this License along with the Program.

 2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of
  it, thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and distribute
  such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided
  that you also meet all of these conditions:
    a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices
       stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.
    b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in
       whole or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any
       part thereof, to be licensed as a whole at no charge to all third
       parties under the terms of this License.
    c) If the modified work has interactive user interfaces, each must
       display Appropriate Legal Notices; however, if the Program has a
       non-interactive interface, you need not display the notices.

 3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it,
  under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
  Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:
    a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable
       source code, which must be distributed under the terms of this
       License, in a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,
    b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years,
       to give any third party, for a charge no more than your cost of
       physically performing source distribution, a complete machine-
       readable copy of the corresponding source code, to be distributed
       under the terms of this License, in a medium customarily used for
       software interchange; or,
    c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer to
       distribute corresponding source code. (This alternative is allowed
       only for noncommercial distribution and only until the material is
       no longer being distributed by you.)

 4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program
  except as expressly provided under this License.  Any attempt to
  copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program outside these
  terms is void, and will automatically terminate your rights under
  this License. However, parties who have received copies, or rights,
  from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
  long as such parties remain in full compliance.

 5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
  signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
  distribute the Program or its derivative works.  These actions are
  prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by
  modifying or distributing the Program (or any work based on the
  Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
  all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
  the Program or works based on it.

 6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the
  Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
  original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to
  these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further
  restrictions on the recipients’ exercise of the rights granted herein.
  You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to
  this License.

 7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
  infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
  conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
  otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
  excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot distribute
  so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this License and
  any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you may not
  distribute the Program at all.  For example, if a patent license would
  not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by all those who
  receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then the only
  way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
  entirely from distribution of the Program.

 8. If any portion of this License is held invalid or unenforceable,
  the rest of the License, or provisions closely corresponding to the
  invalid or unenforceable portion, shall be given the full force and
  effect and the remainder of the License shall continue in full force and
  effect.

 9. If you add terms to a copy of this License in contradiction to the
  terms or conditions herein or make a separate agreement for the
  distribution of a copy of the Program, this does not excuse you from
  the conditions of this License.  Even if you add terms to a copy of the
  Program in a separate agreement, the terms and conditions of this
  License will continue to apply to the Program itself.

 10. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
  of the GNU General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions
  will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail
  to address new problems or concerns.
  
  (At your option, you may use any later version, but this License does not
  permit you to incorporate the Program into non-free programs.)

                            NO WARRANTY

  BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
  FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN
  OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES
  PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED
  OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
  MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS
  TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE
  PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING,
  REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

                            END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS
